do you think that we're living through a
unique moment right now or are people
just confused by something and really
it's all the same uh it's definitely a
different situation if you think about
where we were in 1999 2000 with the tech
boom 2008 2009 with the housing bubble
and now people will look back at this
time as well so we have
super low interest rates we have a bunch
of people on reddit moving markets
literally they shut uh an investment
firm down yep we have uh crypto making
huge news up and down
and we also have a lot of people with
changing jobs um so what does it mean
for
the average person
most good advice doesn't change over
time so should you be saving and
automatically investing yes should you
be thinking about the long term and
choosing low cost investments yes of
course
low cost means low fees low fees yeah
yeah so for example a lot of people
don't know this um but anybody watching
if you go ask your parents this you're
going to have a very shocking
conversation
if you pay one percent in fees like to a
financial advisor a lot of people think
one percent no big deal over the course
of your lifetime guess what percentage
of your gains go to
the person you're paying the fees guess
i actually don't know i know the answer
is high it's not one percent people
think oh one percent one percent
compounding correct if you're paying one
percent in fees 28 of your returns are
going to that advisor's pocket over what
period of time it's about over like 30
plus years it's a long term if you pay
two percent in fees that's over 50 of
your gains going straight into their
pocket so this math is really
counter-intuitive a lot of people really
counterintuitive i know it's true and i
still
get tripped up by that i'll give you a a
quick story of a young woman who wrote
me on instagram
and she's read my book and she goes
ramit i think i'm overpaying for this
financial advisor but i'm not sure i
said okay tell me your information she's
31 she makes about 80k a year and she
was paying 1
i said cool
how much do you think over the course of
your lifetime you will pay in fees
and she had no idea i said just take a
guess she goes 30 grand i said okay how
do you feel about that she said 30 grand
over the next 30 years i feel okay about
it sounds fair
i said great let's do a couple quick
calculations
so
we run the numbers and i told her you
know your income will probably increase
a bit
your investments
it turns out she thought she was paying
30k in fees
she would actually pay 315
000 in fees so i tell her this and on
instagram she's like no no way this
cannot be real i go it's real
and so this is one of those things that
sounds really boring oh fees i'm you
know who really cares one percent
but you could take 300 000 and use it
to go out and have a blast buy a house
invest more spend it on the things you
love and so we want even in a time like
this where everything seems so crazy
it's actually not that crazy we know
what to do when there are low interest
rates we know that what do we do well i
actually don't know like i am horrendous
at investing money yeah and i always i'm
good at making money yeah i'm not good
at investing money well you don't have
to be that good are you good at like
breathing oxygen
yes okay i practiced anyway exactly
because you've done it a ton of times
you don't think about it great investing
is not sitting there looking at some
bloomberg terminal and and choosing the
right stock it's actually quite boring
it is setting up automated investing
it's having the money flow where it
needs to go automatically and if you do
it right you don't even think about it
you spend less than one hour per month
on your investments
so here's what i find interesting about
you and this is the reason that i always
love spending time with you you're very
practical it's the advice that people
should do you also have a psychology
background so you know why people don't
end up doing it yeah
the theme that i find most interesting
right now is how much things have
changed so it's interesting to hear you
echo that they really have changed
from the things that i get involved in
it may seem
even more sort of dramatically different
than it really is but i'll walk you
through some of the things that i think
you're up against with this very sage
advice yeah but we're living in a moment
now where
investing is attracting younger and
younger people they have a sense the
system is broken
they don't know what that means but that
something doesn't work and so people are
trying to find that like quick flip that
quick buck you get crypto coming which i
heard you say you may have changed or
you may have doubled down that people
that invest in crypto are crazy
i think crypto is [__] interesting
yeah as the self-professed guy that is
not good at investing so take that worth
um but there's something happening now
between crypto between gamestop wall
street bets the way that like
the collective of people can [__] up
hedge funds like there's something going
on right now where there's a casino
mechanic
and people are getting
really into this casino mechanic even
nfts which
i don't think of as an investment
vehicle but i am very excited about as a
technology but that's drawn me into this
world where i see
just a gaggle of people treating it like
a casino essentially yeah and
now that it's sort of high risk high
reward lots of fun ding ding ding
flashing lights
how many people do you think are getting
pulled in in a way that's
exciting like hey now you've got 17 year
olds creating youtube content around
investments which is real and i am
utterly shocked by that and how much of
this is like oh my god we're heading
towards a cliff
um that's a great question okay let me
start off with what happened with my
first investments so here it is it's
around 1999 2000 everybody thinks
they're a tech genius you put money in
any stock it goes up 26 the next day
so what do i do i take my college
scholarship money and i put some of it
in the stock market thinking
this is easy guaranteed 20 yeah
guarantee and every day it's going up
and down but mostly up was there a
massive euphoria i wasn't focused yet at
all yes everybody
was
um everybody believed they're a genius
so in a bull market everybody believes
they're a genius and um they all say the
same phrase
this time it's different it's so funny
it's such a funny phrase that in the
investment world people make fun of it
it's a they're mocked because it's never
different it's actually the same thing
bubbles expand uh but over time they
mathematically cannot continue so here
we have people making millions of
dollars who would otherwise be working
in a parking garage and they are giving
stock tips out and telling everybody you
got to get into this jdsu this you know
all kinds of stuff
so i take my college scholarship money
put it in the market
and
i very quickly lose half the money
because of the crash yeah or because of
the crash and so what happens is i
realize oh my god i'm not as smart as i
thought it's not
easy to become a millionaire through
investing in two weeks and so here is
where there was a pivotal moment one i
could have doubled down and said
i just picked the wrong stock let me
pick another stock this is very similar
to what you hear with people in the
crypto world well my investment quote
investment dropped 50
but you know i got to do this coin or
that coin et cetera
what i chose to do is go different and
say you know what
i don't think i'm that smart about
investing and i actually want to learn
how fundamental basic investing works so
things like
low-cost long-term things like reading
about
john bogle's philosophy etc
and i started to learn about it and i
realized
you could spend your entire life trying
to trade
but traders
hardly ever make money over the long
term and if we were going to define
trade timing the market yeah it's like i
understand this stock yeah it's
undervalued yeah i'm going to buy
because i know it's going and i'm going
to do it short term right so i'm going
to create this narrative that oh this
stock look at the trading look at the
chart and i'm gonna try to make quick
money in in four weeks everybody now
knows somebody who trades those people
almost all lose money you'll notice
they're your best friend when they're
making tons of money hey bro i made uh
600 in this stock when it goes down you
don't really hear from them okay that's
called survivorship bias those people
simply disappear but they're really loud
when they're making money
and you learn that mathematically even
top wall street investors over 80
percent of them don't even beat the
market what does that mean it means that
you watching this show right now can
pick a simple vanguard fund and you can
beat over 80 of these fancy wall street
suits these guys were paid over a
million dollars a year
this stuff is really hard to believe
it's really hard to believe because it's
counterintuitive like one percent fees
can be 28 out the door
um people also don't understand
compound growth so for example people a
lot of people right now are really
dissatisfied hey i don't have enough
money i'm not going to ever be able to
afford a house and so therefore
i'm going to have to invest in these
high risk investments that are pure
speculation
what what's really happening there is
they don't understand how compound
interest works in one year than the last
20 years combined because of the because
of compound interest yeah because of how
it works so is it really as simple as
one doubling to two isn't very
interesting two doubling to four is not
very interesting but when you start
getting to a thousand doubling that
becomes real interesting real fast and
it happens and we know the math
if you plug in your numbers to a
compound interest calculator you can
predict
essentially down to the month and year
when you will become a millionaire and
the does that calculate a doubling every
seven years or is that a made-up thing
no that's you can choose change your
assumptions i generally choose a seven
percent return rate seven to eight
percent because historically that's what
we know happens and that factors
inflation in so at roughly seven to
eight percent your money's doubling
approximately every
ten years and people are going to get
that by putting in the stock market and
letting it
and just contributing to it every single
month
yeah 50 bucks 500 bucks 5 000 bucks
whatever works for you
that's how it works that's simple boring
so a lot of people watching this going
oh
this old guy this luddite
i prefer crypto it's really exciting
listen investing is not about excitement
you want excitement get a dog get watch
a tnt drama investing is boring it's
like watching concrete dry and it should
be the real fun is what you do with your
money how you live a rich life all right
before we get to that yeah i want to
like really drill down so i'm currently
not taking your advice okay and you can
legitimately just point out all the
things that are stupid okay
this is my fantasy all right go ahead
i'll give you my sort of thesis the way
that i think about it so um the
because we're printing so much money
that scares the life out of me i'm super
ignorant when it comes to economics and
money so now i'm just operating on
emotion and i'm like okay people are
printing just like metrics [__] tons of
money that does not seem like a
sustainable thing so i tell my money
manager hey i want to be as close to my
money buried in the backyard as humanly
possible she's like this is a terrible
strategy because of inflation like you
don't understand your money's going to
get cut but i was thinking sort of that
same thing one to two percent a year
whatever like i have plenty of time to
figure this out then i start listening
to michael saylor who's like hey
that might not be the real inflation
rate it might be substantially higher
and when you get to i forget the exact
number of inflation but if it's like at
you cut your money in half in like seven
years or something ridiculous and i was
like
what
so then i was like okay now i'm paranoid
about that but when i look at the stock
market and it's and i don't know where
we are today but it's like it was at the
time that my money manager was like you
need more exposure to the stock market i
just kept thinking
i've made a lot of money i believe i
will make a lot more
i just want to protect my downside i'm
not trying to grow my money i'm just
trying to like
maintain my money and the idea of buying
into the stock market even dollar cost
averaging when it seemed so clear to me
this has to be a bubble like you said it
just cannot go up forever so there has
to be some sort of correction and the
economy shut down so i was like how the
[__] could this possibly but of course
now because i didn't have much exposure
to the stock market i had some but yeah
i didn't have much exposure to the stock
market it's like up 28 yeah you missed
that on millions 100 okay
let's talk about this so but am i about
to like be the one who's laughing when
this finally all corrects well nobody
knows first of all nobody knows and if
you bring anyone on the show who tells
you what's going to happen in the stock
market they're an idiot and and or
they're lying so i'm not going to do
that nobody knows and you'll find this
in politics and money
a lot of people
want to be comforted
by essentially a parental figure
somebody who comes in here and tells you
it's all going to be okay or conversely
it's all going to [__]
and they prey on people's weaknesses as
to what's going on the best investors
are humble they know that nobody knows
anything what do we know we know that
over time the market continues to return
approximately seven to eight percent and
that's over
a hundred plus years
we know that there are always people on
reddit and twitter who've got these
fanciful narrations of what's going on
in the world
and they all disappear once the
narrative is proved incorrect so people
have been talking about inflation
forever
this is
very low inflation and in fact even the
recent inflation numbers are i think
over 30 percent of his due to used car
prices okay if you try to
peg your investments to macro economics
you will be potentially losing out on
lots of money now let's talk about your
situation your situation is different
than the people watching this you
already have a lot of capital so if
you're somebody who's 25 30 35 and
you're trying to grow your wealth
that strategy is going to be different
than your strategy tom so let's break
them both down
for the person who's in the wealth
accumulation phase right they have a job
they want to make some more money great
the best strategy for them is low-cost
long-term investing take some percentage
i'd recommend at least 10 preferably 20
of your gross income if if you can
gross free tax well i like to be
aggressive if you can't do 20 go ahead
and do 10. we're going to point them to
a vanguard just something real simple
really
no i've got feelings no individual
investors should be using rob is that
how robinhood works like their day
trading on your behalf or they're
encouraging you to day trade like they
are encouraging you to trade um and you
can see this through a variety of the
design principles that you use they give
you free shares
we don't want to be engineered into
trading trading is the enemy for real
investment returns we want boring simple
that's where the real money's made so
when i talk to my friends
who are high income earners and i ask
them you know we talk about their
investment strategy and they go yeah i
just have it all in vanguard i'm like
these are the people who have serious
money because the others have a lot of
earnings but they're trading at all and
as we know even one percent fees can
reduce it trading taxes those
dramatically reduce your returns so back
to our 35 year old friend
they want to accumulate some money they
say okay i'm going to automatically
contribute 10 15 20 whatever they can do
aggressively
and at first it seems really boring oh
i'm putting like 100 bucks a month or a
thousand bucks a month that's not that
much
but what they forget is that not only do
you keep adding that but over time the
market tends to go up and we know what
happens so your money isn't just
doubling every 10 years it's actually
much faster than that because you're
contributing more and suddenly they wake
up and they go oh my god that's a lot of
money and in three years i'm gonna have
more money from that than i get from my
job
wow now you have some serious
opportunity you can choose whether to
work there start a business go part-time
are there different vanguard account
types
so the thing that i really like for
simple investment is called a target
date fund if you're 35 you know that you
can just assume you're going to retire
at 65. you might retire earlier later
but just assume
and so you would pick a vanguard fund
like a
2050 fund what is that imagine you have
a pie chart
in that pie chart you have basically two
different kinds of investments equities
or stocks and fixed income or bonds
equities are more aggressive they tend
to outperform
uh bonds
what a target date fund does is you just
pick one fund that's it just one put all
your money in there and it automatically
um reallocates over how did i pick that
fund is it just like just by ap no no
it's just by age so they do it yeah so
youtube i just say hey i want to retire
by 65 i'm currently this age bingo and
then
no no no they say i'm going to put you
in the vanguard
2050 fund so 2050 means you're going to
retire in 2015. but how are they
thinking about that is this like the
world's most diversified portfolio is
that sort of their basic automatically
diversified so it has uh internationally
automatically diversified there's a
human in this somewhere even if it's
just a human programming ai well they
have chosen to diversify in these target
date funds based on this criteria what
they do is they include model yeah yeah
so they include value investing no it's
not it's not necessarily value investing
it is a 30-second breakdown so when you
invest a lot of people will pick some
stock that's like me going over to your
house for dinner and you go getting some
specific stuff yeah they'll pick like
this stock yeah they'll pick tesla
that's like me going over to your house
and you go tonight we're eating salt
what
that's not a meal a meal
includes your proteins and all kinds of
other things in your investment
portfolio if you just have tesla you
might feel really good you might say hey
ramit
nice investment strategy but my
investment's up 400 percent
cool i'm glad
but over time that cannot sustain itself
and so when that goes down you want to
have other investments that that are
going up and diversify and again yes you
may lose out on a little bit of gains
like if you had picked apple or amazon
that would have been nice
but
you have to remember most people don't
pick apple they don't pick amazon and so
the people who pick it you're usually
too lazy
something dumb yeah they were hyped on
it for some reason that's why they're
called mom and pop investors that's an
insult
ma and pa are the dumb money the dumb
money are random retail investors who
are sitting in their basement using
e-trade or robin hood the sophisticated
people
are on wall street and even they can't
pick the winners
more than 20 of the time so
a target date fund automatically
diversifies internationally
what is up my friend tom bill you here
and i have a big question to ask you how
would you rate your level of personal
discipline on a scale of one to ten if
your answer is anything less than a ten
i've got something cool for you and let
me tell you right now discipline by its
very nature means compelling yourself to
do difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact i will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right i've just released a class from
impact theory university called how to
build ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work i will see you inside
this workshop from impact theory
university until then my friends be
legendary peace out
so follow the incentives this is very
good advice for people if i'm the guy on
wall street like i'll let this person
remain nameless but there's somebody in
my life that i know and love care about
i think they're amazing and they
like to day trade it gives them a sense
of purpose they do a lot of research and
all this and i remember one day i just
thought are you up or down all time
you're like down and i was like what are
you doing
like if and they had been in it for 15
years yeah so it wasn't even like a a
brief period of time and i just thought
that's so interesting it's like adult
baseball cards yeah you know what gives
me a sense of purpose
having a huge investment portfolio
what does that mean i want a portfolio
that takes basically no time huge from a
dollar perspective yeah huge so i put it
in something really simple target date
fund or a series of index funds what
percentage of your net worth is in a
target date fund uh i would say not a
target day fund now i have index funds a
series of index funds as well as i've
had a target index meaning people don't
[__] day it yeah just it's like a
group of companies and grouped in some
way
500 or whatever yeah
it's basically what's inside of a target
date fund but just taken outside of it
um simple low cost etc over 90 of my net
worth is in index funds so many
different ballpark index funds are you
in um
less than 10. now is that because ramit
is more clever than other people and you
know it's because it's because i have a
larger net worth so at home so you don't
want to cram it all into one thing
that's correct because at for 99 of
people a target date fund is a fantastic
investment why it's one place that you
invest you do not have to choose all
kinds of crazy stuff two and this is
really important it automatically gets
more conservative as you get older now
if you're watching this right now you're
like i don't care about that down the
road but think about it
when grandma and grandpa were in 2008
and we all heard these stories of people
losing 50 of their net worth overnight
those older folks should have never been
invested that aggressively a target date
fund will protect high risk things into
equities they should have had more
conservative investment bonds yeah and
so you would you do not like the kiss of
death right now no there's a big debate
about whether or not people should even
buy bonds or have cash or whatever but
you have to remember the average person
watching this right now
is not reading all the intricacies of
bonds versus cash and yields they're
like
i just want my money to go where it
should go
so we have to be humble enough to
recognize
you do not want to be a professional
money manager you even said you have
somebody you call most people just want
their money to grow they want it to be
relatively safe they're willing to take
a little up and down but they don't want
to think about it they spend more time
looking at a yelp review for dinner on
sunset than they do
picking their investments that is
terrifyingly true yeah and so instead of
fighting that let's just acknowledge it
hey i am never gonna sit here and read
all this stuff and by the way even if i
did that doesn't predict better returns
so i'm gonna pick a simple investment
strategy i'm gonna automate it and i'll
spend one hour per month on my money
done and over time i'm going to
accumulate a very very substantial
portfolio and i can take amazing
vacations i can provide for my family i
can have fun that's a rich life okay
this stuff gets really interesting but i
think there is a layer of complexity
that it's wise for people to begin to
pull back so um
all right low cost means low fees so
that's an important thing vanguard funds
are the place to start vanguard is great
i don't want to i'm not pitching
vanguard it's where i have a lot of my
money why not pitch vanguard i like them
i just don't i want everybody to know i
don't have to deal with them
fair
no there are other companies that are
also great you can choose you know
fidelity has a lot of great low-cost
funds um
makes them great that they have the same
theory as the vanguard fund um
no
vanguard in my opinion the reason i have
my money there is that the firm is built
on low cost so the entire dna of the
firm is low cost
there are other firms like fidelity that
did not start off like that they started
off charging high net worth investors a
lot of money now because of vanguard
they had to lower their fees because
they were getting eaten alive and so
they did add these things but they
always have this dna of let's charge
higher fees for high net worth people
now if you want to pay
let's talk about fees for a second
because i think this is interesting
i have no problem if you want to hire an
advisor and pay a premium price 500
bucks an hour 5 000 bucks for a review i
have no problem pay it for for if you
have a specific complex situation or
your high net worth you want a second
set of eyes great
most people would rather pay
250 000 in hidden fees
than pay 10 000 out of their pocket
do you realize how insane that is yeah
they would rather pay 250 grand in
hidden fees and even when i tell them
hey look at that one percent let's do a
little bit of math and i'll show you how
much it adds up to it's on paper it's
math they go ah
one percent he's a nice guy i go you
know i'm sure he's a nice guy take him
out to a baseball game and save 240
thousand dollars and go out with your
husband or wife
that's
how crazy our psychology is around fees
so i was fortunate god bless me um
i wind up getting found not guilty
because
it's called fruit of a poisonous treat
so they kicked in my door but they
didn't have probable cause because they
stopped me in my truck they didn't find
nothing on me so they went to my house
kicked the door with no search warrant
so now everything you find is null and
void
that's purpose man because that's not
supposed to happen right
i'm thinking for it all the time
and then
um
but that put me in a situation because
now even though it costs it cost me 60
to beat that charge i don't have no
money
so now i get into the robbing game so
now i start robbing doe dealers right
because og told me that a person who
works a job every day they not a part of
this game
so they not fair game they you don't
mess with them but somebody who sells a
nickel bag
he fell again a shark don't care if it's
a tuna or whatever if you're in the
ocean swimming you fail game and so i
started robbing dope dealers at the
times i was like yo if you want you
can't call the police if you want to see
me see me i'm with it
and i got in a situation where um i was
good at it me and my partner god blesses
so and then one day i almost got killed
and i go to my pot and i say bro i'm out
like i said done deal
but when they kicked my door in
something
happened
so they took my truck
they
took my money
but they didn't mess with my stock
account
it didn't freeze it didn't i said hold
up
they don't think i'm smart enough for
this
in the book 48 laws of power it says uh
never underestimate your opponent
and at that point i realized that
america underestimates us
and it's not it's from a class issue
because we've never
said we're capable of doing this it's a
game we just didn't play
so i said okay
god what do you want me to do all i know
how to do is be a hustler
and the voice from 1999 comes in my head
and says you're just playing the wrong
game
i said oh okay start working as an iron
worker building stadiums building power
plants
it's crazy because i was making good
money two thousand dollars a week that's
good money that's something like yo two
thousand dollars a week yo that's it two
thousand twenty five hundred like it was
amazing i started saving and investing
seventy percent of my money god damn i
was living bare minimum i was like if
i'm a change i got to make like the hard
choices it's hard for people to make
sacrifice because you got to now go go
against and do without some of the
things that gives you that
momentary gratification that simple that
ah that's what keeps you alive that's
what keeps you going just to go on
vacation one time a year to get these
pair of shoes that may cost me a
thousand dollars no i can't afford them
but
i've worked so hard i need that just to
keep giving me something and so i was
like okay
and once i started doing it man and i
started showing my homies in the street
that it was a game changer it changed my
life you showing him your portfolio no i
was showing yeah i was like yo look i'm
about to end this before robin hood even
existed right so i'm on e-trade at the
time and i'm like bro check this out man
we go get we go to the club bruh and we
buy
bottles hennessy
we buy
wet
we buy louis vuitton we buy fendi yo we
can own that
it was like what
like yo there's a stock called lvmh
louis vuitton wet hennessy
but you can get it on the market it's
lvmu why
because it's in france and it was like
what
i'm like man look i'm like listen bro we
upgrade our iphones every year
we can own apple and so now we own app
we own ipad probably at timberlands
every day and so that was like they got
it but it was like
i see it but i don't know and i was like
all right and so then i had an idea
i said check this out
we know the end result of being in
prison
i've been shot you've been shot you've
been shot we've did some shooting we've
all been to jail
who suffers
like your kids your mom's your girl i
said at least what we gotta do is if we
gonna play the game we gotta at least
reward them for us playing the game
i was like so what we gotta do is invest
our money for them
so we making ten five thousand dollars a
week if we can do that if we can make
twenty thousand dollars but we gotta
give them something if it ain't cash we
gotta at least put something up for them
because if we gone for 10 years what
they gonna do we can at least have that
for them and then i was telling one of
our problems i was like listen bro you
need to invest the money cause he was
making more money than me i said what
happens when you get knocked off because
one thing you know your time is coming
so you live the game until it's your
time you understand that
what happens when you go do a 5-10 year
bed and you come home and nobody can't
give you money
at least if you got it in the stock
market
when you come home you up
your money been working for you for ten
years five years you gotta ask nobody
for nothing you go to the real man what
you got he was like damn
that's smart right
and so my idea was like how do we get
how do we start changing the mindset and
some people might be like why would you
tell them that because what happens is
you got to start somewhere
you got to make the game runnable in the
language that we can understand and so
once you learn english now you say you
know i want to learn spanish i want to
learn french i want to learn that
because now you understand the power of
words and so once they started
understanding the power of the game
it was like okay i can play this game
and so it was powerful for me when my
home is in the street started investing
any money
that was a game changer for me
when my homies in the street who didn't
finish school who didn't go to college
started telling me man i bought some
apple bruh i bought some microsoft bruh
i bought some nike brothers i'm about to
get them new js so i might
like that was powerful for me yeah we
made the game winnable
dude you have a phrase wall street looks
like us oh she looks like us now there's
another phrase you say but you should
like put that same like [__] stamp on
it is i own that i own that because you
talk about stocks in a way that sounds
so rad
where it's like
you refer to yourself as an owner of the
company yes and and the thing is it
actually is true like you're not playing
a linguistic game it is true but people
don't think about it like that but it's
so much more powerful
than having a cool pair of kicks is to
say i own the company that makes those
kicks or i own the company that makes
that phone or you know tim cook the ceo
of apple works for me i'm a shareholder
right
it's uh it's really really powerful
explain that basic idea of ownership for
people that might not quite
put it together that stocks really are
owning that company
so i actually got that term from warren
buffett um
in one of his meetings i want to say it
was a 1995 shareholder meeting and he
said that um he owned great owning a
stock is like is owning a percentage of
a great business
and so once i understood that concept
i understood that the key to wealth is
through ownership
like that's what that was one of the
things that made it click because i
studied the wealthy people like i
studied them um and i was like damn even
when you go back to black wall street
o.w gurley the reason why he bought he
has the 40 acres and those acreages one
of the things he did was he said i'm
going to sell these pieces to my people
so they can have ownership
i was like damn when you study reginald
white one of the first black man to make
a billion dollars on wall street
it was about he wanted it to have
ownership so i said the key to building
wealth is not how much you can work
you can't work your way to wealth you
got to investigator in all wealthy
people black white asian chinese they
own a whole bunch of [__]
the people who aren't wealthy is because
they don't own nothing
you only have your money sitting in cash
if your money is just sitting in cash
realistically you're becoming poorer
every day
right or they own depreciating assets
and that's what cash is it's a
depreciating asset because the more
money they print the more money that
money loses value so if it's just
sitting it's the reason why the bank
wants you to have your money there so
they can take it and use it and invest
it so much and be like hey is this
sitting i'm gonna give you 50 cents on
whatever you had in it
and so the idea of ownership was yo we
can just start owning
everything that we no matter if it just
a stock
like that's powerful because if you can
start owning the businesses that you now
consume every day you turn a one-time
transaction to a lifetime of profit
and that was major for me because if i
go to the store and buy a pair of nikes
that's a one-time transaction in order
for me to get something from them again
i got to come back and buy another pair
of nikes but if i own the nike stock
long as i own it it's a profitable um
vehicle for me so that one time
transaction can become a lifetime of
profit if i own
that business if i'm gonna buy apple if
i know i'm an apple user if i know i got
the phone i got the error pods i got the
macbook i got the pc i got i excited
when apple's about to drop something why
wouldn't i own it
as much of it as i can
right like if i if i understand that
concept if i know people gonna america
has one of the biggest trash problems in
the world right so if i know that waste
management is a company that's going to
be here forever because we aren't going
to stop throwing things away why don't i
own that company
because i know everybody throws things
away and so now instead of me getting
excited about apple lime being around
the corner because it's a new phone i'm
like yo y'all have to make me some money
right so when i hear something like
waste management has bought 40 acres of
disposable land for another landfill i'm
excited about that and another great
thing about the stock market is
for me it now makes me pay attention to
the world
and so now i understand what's going on
in the world i started learning business
cycles market cycles you know i'm like
because now i can understand yo
this is okay things are going out of
business it's okay we're in this cycle
okay people are hiring okay we're an
expansion cycle and so now i started to
take i took an economic class on my own
without
just understanding the world and so you
start understanding when something is
happening in china okay something
happened in china so i own apple apple
has 20 percent of revenue in china okay
they might take a little hit right now
you know what i'm saying so the stock
market helped me start understanding how
the world moves the fundamentals right
right and so that's important i really
hope people i don't know i really hope
people pay close attention to you
because even in this interview they're
not going to understand how much you
know
and
i've listened to hours and hours and
hours and hours and hours of your
footage and i'm just like
[__] so one thing i want to i want to be
on record is saying and you can play
this on a loop on your [__] website
whatever is that i can afford any money
manager i want
and
you are as knowledgeable
as the money manager that i have i'm
very impressed with your ability to
explain these concepts and so that's
important to me for a couple of reasons
one there there are certain people that
are only going to listen to you
so it's great so they now have access to
i'm telling you world-class information
and then number two is
the journey that you've been on you
started on the streets were homeless in
prison like really caught up in the
lifestyle
and
through knowledge you have transformed
your life and your family's life
and
if they can believe that you can do it
they have what i call the only belief
that matters
the only belief that matters is this if
you put time and energy into getting
better at something you will actually
get better at that and that is true for
every human now why is that the only
belief that matters because your
behaviors follow your beliefs and only
behaviors matter so if you invest in the
stock market even if you don't believe
in it your investment could still go up
if you believe in the stock market and
know it's the surest path to wealth but
don't invest in the stock market you'll
never reap the games so
getting people to believe that they can
get better because what you've done is
just read and study and research and
spend time watching cnbc and then you
look like i heard you once explained oh
i'll see a ticker symbol go by that i
don't know it i don't sit there and
waste time that i don't know it i just
go look it up yeah and so now that's
another ticker symbol and for anybody
that just heard ticker symbols like what
the [__] is the ticker symbol go look it
up yeah right so
you're
such a powerful example of the power of
knowledge
i think that's really really interesting
so yeah i i hope that this is for people
that didn't know you before coming into
this interview hopefully they'll spend
more time because they'll see just how
much you know man thank you for that and
that's i understand that uh
knowledge is what gives us leverage in
life
it's not about how strong you are
it's about what you can learn
and then how can you actively apply that
i have this acronym called fear
um finally exiting average reality
right and what happens is until we can
overcome the fear some people actually
fear success
success comes with a lot
right but until you can overcome that
average reality that you're living it no
matter what you're on once you become
comfortable there it becomes average
anyone can live in average everyone can
live in mediocrity right then there's
those outliers
who consistently push themselves to go
to the next level lebron spends one
million dollars on his body
working out eating right agility
mobility
because he will never be average
and the thing about the human mind and
the human body
it will go as far as you push it
right there is there's science that says
that gandhi levitated before
the power of the mind so you may look at
it like man nobody can't levitate get
out of your mind but there's a level of
meditation concentration that you can
lock into that can take you there as
long as you believe in it like you said
the only belief that matters is what do
you believe you can do i personally
believe that there is nothing i cannot
do and for me it's all about impact
purpose fulfillment
like the money is a byproduct of
everything else that isn't my focus my
focus is i have a knowledge and
information that i know that can change
lives not just one life not just like
lives
and so the way that you change lives is
by consistently learning finding new
ways to put that information out there
being able to open up being able to be
vulnerable because people need to
connect
people connect to knowledge in the way
that they can see two things that help
people imagery and vocabulary
what they see and what they hear
right so most people won't connect to a
certain knowledge because the people who
speak it
don't relate into can't speak the
knowledge in the way that they can eat
it
so for me it's always about how do i
attain as much it's always a challenge
for me how can i attain as much
knowledge as i can because i love
learning like i love learning but then
how do i take that and be able to now
reciprocate it or give it to somebody
who may not understand calculus a
trigonometry but if i can give it to
them in this
way they can say oh yeah
i got it and there's more people that
struggled in the world that has become
successful so struggle has to become a
language that i'm i struggle so that's
the language i'm great at so if i can
break down things into a struggle
language now i make it the game winnable
for everybody
and that's the goal to make the game
winnable for everybody who's bold enough
to step into the batting cage
if you bold enough to do that
i was bold enough to jump in the goddamn
152 foot tank with sharks in dubai if
you're bold enough to do it there's an
experience that comes from that and that
experience is so exhilarating it will
take you to the next level because now
you keep chasing the next level of you
and that is when you start understanding
life at a whole nother concept when you
start understanding that yo for the
longest i was just low-level living i
was low-level thinking
now that i've been exposed to something
and i say this often whatever you
haven't been exposed to isn't your fault
once you get exposed to it you now are
accountable for it
and so once i've become exposed to so
much knowledge and information once i
expose you to it you accountable because
now you can no longer say i didn't know
what do you say to people that don't
think they have enough money to invest
so the important thing for me to tell
them is start where you are
you build a house break by brick
i mean of course you can get a house put
together all at once
we live in there i get the idea right
but you build the mansion you build an
empire you build it brick by brick like
you start with 25
and we have to understand think uh r.i.p
to nip man a great he says something
that's phenomenal he said we're in a
marathon
we didn't get into our situation
overnight
right we looking back at our situation
you see that was you inherited
that whatever it is that poverty you
inherited that that mindset that idea
scarcity that idea that you don't have
enough money you inherited that
building wealth becomes a revolutionary
act
because now you start saying i'm going
to go against what i was taught right
and so i see it by starting with 25 if
you can do 25 a month that's cool if you
can do 25 a week that's cool because
what happens is once you start
understanding the power of how your
money works you start saying yo i don't
need to do that because that's taken
away from this
let me that 25 will now become 50
what is up my friend you and i are
living in a golden era of
self-improvement we have books platforms
like youtube courses seminars virtual
events workshops the list really is
endless the internet has been so good
for people like you and me who want to
accomplish greater and greater things in
life and now my friend it is about to
get even better i've been spending most
of this year working on the single most
entertaining tool that you're ever going
to have around self-improvement and it
is called project kaizen it's a web 3
based game experience that will be
unlike anything else you've ever engaged
with in your life partly because the
technology is new and it's amazing if
you're not familiar with blockchain nfts
and all of that kaizen is going to be
the perfect introduction for you as it
is an excellent intersection of
entertainment and learning all backed by
the blockchain we're getting closer and
closer to launching this project for you
every single day we are working our
faces to the bone to get this thing out
there and my friend i want you to
experience it so click the link on your
screen and head on over to my discord
channel to stay up to date and be one of
the first to join me inside of project
kaizen which by the way gets its name
from the japanese term of never ending
improvement all right back to today's
episode this is something i see a lot
you look at arnold schwarzenegger and
all the success he had in bodybuilding
he was able to translate into other
areas of his life
the success that you had early in
wrestling you've obviously been able to
translate
what what's sort of the secret for you
to to the level of success you've had
you know it's it's interesting how
similar uh my wrestling mindset and
business is and it's not the same as a
lot of people in fact i've had a lot of
uh people in last few years i've kind of
rubbed rubbed the wrong way because of
it but i look at it as a sport so like
when i started my business i was looking
around the first thing i looked at i was
like who do i have to be i remember when
we came in there was a software company
that was like okay that's our competitor
and it was like
i wasn't quite about i made known to
myself to my team to my entire community
like we're going to beat them and then
we went after them aggressively and
aggressively and and uh just like i
would if i was going to be wrestling or
competing against them and i like i
reverse injured everything they did i
figured out what they were doing why
they're doing listen to every podcast
interview the founder was on and
understand his mindset what he was doing
and we we just like relentlessly pursued
them until we caught them and then we
passed them and after we passed them
then i was like
it's funny because i was like i need
something new to go after and then there
was another company that was bigger than
them i was like that's the next company
we started going after them and the same
thing i pursued them and like looked at
and reverse engineered what they're
doing and how they're doing why they
were doing and trying to figure it out
and i remember as we started getting
closer and closer to them
uh the ceo of that company called me one
day and uh he was like he's like why are
you so upset at like why do you hate me
and i hate our company so much
uh i it kind of caught me off guard i
was like what do you mean he's like he's
like you are out there always like
trying to like you know do all these
things to to beat us and i was like oh i
don't hate you guys at all i got so much
respect like i know more about you than
i think you do like i understand you do
and why you do it level i don't believe
you do i gotta i don't hate you at all
but but you're my competitor like you're
who i chose and i have to beat you like
that's that's how it works and he was
like i remember he came back and he was
like he's like i wasn't really an
athlete so i'm not used to that like
he's like it's interesting i thought you
mad you're mad at us you hated us and i
was like no like it remind me of the
scene in uh my favorite movies uh the
dark knight where at the very end when
the joker's falling off the the the
cliff and batman asking is like he's why
are you trying to kill me and the joker
starts laughing he's like i'm not trying
to kill you he's like he's like without
you like there's no me like i can't do
what i do without you and i feel like
that that's been such my mindset in fact
you know that we passed that company
it's like hey who's the next people we
found who they are and i'm studying them
and understanding them in a deeper level
like and so for me it's i don't think i
could be in business where it's just a
business just to
to grow or i don't know without a
without a goal or purpose or something
to to strive towards and and to move
move move forward i was remembering um i
think there's a pulling bone apart it
said something about um what man will do
for a first scrap of ribbon i feel like
maybe that's like in wrestling that's
what it was for me like i had like i had
to go and i went to a state champ there
was no american like i kept going for
the whatever the next scrap of ribbon i
had to get it and i feel like in
business it's the same thing for me it's
just like it's a game there's
competitors and we're trying to figure
out the landscape where we fit in and
how we how we pursue and how we go after
them
dude i think that is genius so as
somebody i didn't like being competitive
when i was younger because i was afraid
i was going to lose and of course i
didn't want to say that so i was just
saying or i may not even have understood
it if i'm completely honest there was
just it triggered some something in me
which i would now recognize as
insecurity which i can now articulate as
i had this fear of having proof
empirical data that i wasn't good enough
which of course was my biggest fear when
i was a kid and now getting into
business and realizing yo [__]
like you've got to be going hard and
this is like look i like you i would be
shocked if somebody was was interpreting
my competitiveness my desire to win as
hate but it it is what i call the dark
side it is a dark energy right there's
the light side which is the beautiful
things i want to create and the
gratitude i have for what i have in my
life and all of that and it's amazing
but then there's also the competitive
side of wanting to win of saying look
i'm going after that person and the
people who so i'm not a sports guy but
like because of my mentality i
constantly find myself drawn to athletes
so i'll use that that language but
please don't mistake me for an athlete
um but you know when you talk to the
guys that are really really great and
you look at the amount of tape they
watch like how they study their
competitors they study themselves they
stare nakedly at their inadequacies it
it dude there's something there and the
fact that people don't put in that time
and energy to learn what is going on is
crazy the the amount of insights you'll
get are extraordinary
and that to me is
is the power so as we go into
um this which
probably is going to be a recession
might be a
depression um
how do you think about
overcoming the obstacles that are going
to come your way how do you
avoid falling into the trap of thinking
that you know everything already like
how do you stay nimble
um
that's a good question especially when
you know at this point our company's so
big that you have a lot of friends who
are solar entrepreneurs and they're able
to be nimble because like it's just them
and they can you know but now we've got
400 plus employees and it's a it's
harder to be to be nimble i think it's
been interesting because i've been
trying to trying to figure that out and
um you know one of our our mutual
friends dean gracious i talked to him
about this a lot as everything started
hitting things started shifting and uh
and i remember watching him because i
again i'm i'm kind of a marketing nerd
so i remember when i was in high school
i used to sit back and i would watch
info like i remember i watched dean on
infomercials back when i was a kid like
i would take notes i'm like whoa like
the way he said things um
i remember watching um as it came up to
like the last big recession
watching all dean's infomercials and at
the time there was probably i don't know
30 different get rich and real estate
infomercials on tv like anyone who ever
flipped a house in their life for like
i'm an infomercial guru and teaching
people how to do it right and uh and
then the recession hit and the housing
market crashed and went from like 50
infomercial gurus to like three down to
one and then there was just dean and
dean continued running for marshalls the
entire thing and then uh and then and
then beyond and i remember i didn't know
him at the time i remember watching and
just being interested how like
he he was the only one still on and so i
asked him later how in the world did you
did you survive when everyone else got
got crushed and he said something super
profound he's like i didn't shift i
didn't shift um
my product i mean my product was still
the same he's like i shifted i marketed
my product he said everyone else is
speaking very aspirational like how do
we how do we create this thing you know
how do we how do we get rich how do we
make money like things like that he's
like i shifted from being aspirational
to looking at my business more as like a
life preserver like like how do you how
do you protect yourself and how this
product can can protect you and uh and
so as we started coming in this thing i
realized the same thing like um in fact
i talked a little about in traffic
secrets i talk about um the fact that
when any customer's coming to you
they're either moving towards you
they're moving towards you in one or two
directions either they're moving towards
pleasure or they're moving away from
pain right it's like they're coming to
me because they want to start a business
when i get rich or they want to make
money or they want to whatever or
they're coming to me because like i hate
my boss i need to get out of this pain
like it's just a miserable i need to
need to get out of pain and if you look
at the economy over the last you know
seven or eight years most because for
most people it's been pretty good most
people are buying any product or service
whether it be fitness health you know
business uh anything for that matter
it's like they're buying it because
they're trying to move towards pleasure
but you know a couple weeks ago
everything shifted where people are all
in pain now i think the companies are
going to survive and be nimble or ones
understand how to shift their messaging
where it's like how can how can the
product or service i sell how does it
get somebody out of pain and that's the
marketing the messaging people need and
they want right now and it's funny
because like as i was launching the the
traffic i literally we launched the book
the same day that president trump told
everyone to go home and if you look like
my marketing campaign ahead of time it
was like you know how we built this 100
100 million a year company and how
traffic how much traffic would get all
these things and then i was like that is
the wrong message right now and so we we
literally like my team i'm like all
right everything every ad we've written
every pre-sale every video like just
delete them all we're redoing everything
and like this is the messaging the
messaging is and we start talking about
uh i got a buddy down the street who
owns a local waffle place the best
waffles in the world if you ever come to
boise i'll take you there and uh and uh
he opened the same day that the whole
recession happened and it was crazy
because you look at like he's got his
business he opens the doors and it's the
same day that literally traffic you know
usually restaurants you have you have
cars like physical traffic driving by
and people come and they they come and
they eat he's like the traffic stopped
and what happens all companies they just
they die like traffic is the lifeblood
of a company and so the whole messaging
shifted to like look
like if you want to survive during these
times then thrive on the other side of
this like you have to master traffic and
customers and getting people in like
this is literally your company's life
preserver during these uncertain times
so all the messaging shifted the ads
shifted the like the like everything
shifted and uh and you know the book
launch has done insanely well and
everything's kind of come from that but
but it all came from like shifting the
message from towards pleasure to
understanding that we're in a time of
moving people away from pain i think
that the companies understand that and
understand that shift in messaging are
the ones that are gonna that are gonna
really win during this this time
yeah one thing that um i think people
need to be very aware of is where
they're at in their life are you moving
towards something or away from something
so i've always said that people fall
into two categories and i think you're
right it changes actually depending on
where you're at in your life what's
going on in the world
but by nature i would say that people
are motivated by one of two things
either they're moving towards a goal or
they're moving away from a problem i
don't want to be broke i don't want to
be homeless i um and then there's other
people that are like i want to achieve
this goal i want to win this i want to
be the best and knowing where you come
from will help you navigate the world in
a much more um
sane inducing way because if you're
being sort of true to what aligns with
you like for me moving away from
something is never very interesting it
takes me into like a very uncertain a
very uneasy place whereas even if i'm in
the middle of massive uncertainty and i
have fears for me to shift my energy i
need to pick a goal something that i'm
excited about so that when i'm pursuing
it even though the outcome is going to
be that i outrun this thing right i've
been broke i've had crazy debt i've been
in a place emotionally where i'm laying
on my carpet and i just [__] i don't
have any idea how i'm going to create
momentum in my life so i know what
that's like but the things that got me
up and moving were to believe that i
could change to believe that i could
grow to set a goal to to set a goal that
i was excited about and then wake up
every day and pursue that
and that was the thing that it i think a
big thing people have to do is like what
where are you at as a baseline reference
point if you're in
looking at seeing all the problems and
all the things that are wrong you're not
in problem solving mode if you can shift
over into problem solving mode so i've
heard you talk about that waffle
restaurant before and you gave the guys
some brilliant ideas about what to do
like hey are you sending people text
messages and it's like yeah to be top of
mind to remind people um you know to
incept them but you have to be in that
problem-solving mode
yeah
is that something that you think about
intentionally is that something you try
to train your team to do is that that to
me seems like going back to what you
were saying at the very beginning with
your dad of like all right you can look
at you at the fact that you lost or you
can solve this problem
yeah i think it's interesting too
because i look at most business owners
and like i and i know for me i did i did
it backwards the first way like a lot of
times we come up with our products or
our services like we have an idea like i
want to create this thing we create it
and then after it's done like now we've
got to figure out how to sell it and you
figure out like a cell's message and
create that and then it's like now i
gotta go find people to sell to and then
we're
trying to find people and it's like
it's like backwards like if you look at
the way the the most successful
businesses grow i look at the way that
we grew click funnels was when i had
this realization of like i don't want to
go and like create something and find
somebody to sell to i want to go find
the people that that um that i'm
passionate about serving and then just
listen really really carefully right and
i always tell people like the the um the
more money you make is uh will be like
the money you make will be in direct
relation to how simple you make uh
somebody else's process right so for me
it's like i hope people build funnels to
sell their products and services and so
you know when i when i taught people the
strategies here's how you do it i made
good money we made software that made it
simpler i made more money when we had
like done for you things making simpler
and make more money and it's always like
how do i simplify this process for
whoever the customers how do i make it
easier and and so like the mindset that
we're always having in our here at
clickfunnels and me and my team is like
we're sitting there and listening to our
audience like what is it they're looking
for what do they want what are they
struggling and it's like okay how do we
make this process simpler and every good
product every good idea everything
that's that's been a winner came from
that like listening and then like
figuring out how to solve the problem
all the ones where it was like russell
has this great idea at two in the
morning let me go let's go create it my
whole team gets together and we like try
to give it to people those those are the
ones that don't typically do very well
um no matter how much like you know how
much
push force and money we put into it to
try to get adoption it's always harder
than the opposite way we're just
listening to what people want and figure
out how is the best way to solve that
for them and um anyway that's like the
the simplest thing is just listening and
how do we simplify this form how do we
simplify and you'll get paid more the
better you become simplifying processes
and
and things for people
i love that idea of simplification
that's something so do you know noah
kagan
yes yeah i do all right super
interesting guy and i think one of the
things that makes him so effective he
said his superpower is making money um
and
what but what he means by that is his
super power isn't simplifying it's in
breaking the process down into immediate
action
and those two things simplifying it and
then taking immediate action to me are
the exact things people need to be
obsessively focused with right now
because right now like first and
foremost if you're in a dire situation
take care of your basic needs man like
don't worry about launching the next
facebook like make sure that you've got
a roof over your head you can put food
on the table right and that's where a
lot of people are going to crash and
burn is
yo maslow's hierarchy of needs has stood
the test of time for a reason like there
are just certain things safety security
like get those taken care of and you may
have to do a job that you didn't want to
do or you may have to call people up and
be banging the phones if you're trying
if you've got a product that really has
value and [__] like you don't know how
to get it out like you've got to think
like a direct marketer and this is like
where i think my own story confuses
people because like i'm so intense and
you know i've got like that raw raw
spirit but the reality is i'm not a burn
the ships of the shore guy like i'm a yo
keep your day job man like when we
launched quest we had a software company
so during the day i was running a
software company and nights and weekends
i was making protein bars because i
wanted to see if this would work like
you're saying make sure there's an
audience before you go like we didn't
get a warehouse and start buying
equipment until we were selling protein
bars
i i don't even think we bought the
equipment until we were already
profitable so we were making the bars by
hand which was pure insanity making the
bars by hand ourselves nights and
weekends to make sure that there was
something real there so what advice do
you have for somebody who's like yo i
just lost my job and i feel totally out
of control what can they do as a
solopreneur to get like that first
audience to get that first sale
yeah and i want to first off agree with
you people message me all the time like
like oh i read your book i'm going to
quit my job and do this thing i'm like
no like no don't quit your job and do
the thing like keep your job because you
know as well as i do that like when you
have that like the uncertainty and like
it makes the pressure so much higher and
makes it so much harder to like get
creative and get figure things out when
when those needs are met it's so much
easier to to go figure things out um but
someone like it's funny because uh
i've had this conversation with some
close friends who've lost their jobs who
are freaking out right now and and i and
i tried to explain them like you have to
understand that like the money didn't
just disappear right like we're in like
this great wealth transfer things are
shifting around like um i don't know if
you know perry belcher but he's one of
my friends who owns survivallife.com and
you look at survival life in the last 30
days has made more money than the last
like 10 years combined right like money
is shifting over there and you look at
you know like
it's not this disappeared like people
still have money they're not going to
the movie theaters and the restaurants
they're spending in other places and
like it's understanding that and so if
if your whole world just got pulled away
from you it's not that the money just
just evaporated it's got transferred
somewhere so the first thing i'm doing
is looking like where like where is this
getting transferred what are the
companies and the businesses that are
making more money right now like they
can't handle it that they're looking for
more help because because man also
because of this new circumstances
everything is just just growing like
crazy so that's the first thing the
second thing i look at is like what is
the skill set that is the most valuable
inside of a company and i've got a
friend who's a dentist i tease them all
the time because you know most dentists
like there's a dentist they like that's
the most important person in the
business i'm the person who who does the
thing on people's teeth and i had this
little conversation i'm like you're not
the most important person in your
business yeah without me they can't
clean teeth i was like i was like the
most important person in your business
is the person who can get customers to
come in the front door because that
person can't bring customers in the
front door you have no teeth to clean
therefore your skill set is useless like
the most valuable person in any company
is the person who we call them
rainmakers who can make it rain who can
bring people in and so that's what comes
down to like this book traffic secrets
it's like the person who can drive
traffic who can bring the customers in
becomes the most valuable person in any
company i have friends who are so good
at driving traffic that they literally
will find a company that's struggling or
maybe on the downside they'll come in
and say hey look i can bring you the
thing that you're missing it's the holy
grail for your business and all
businesses it's customers and i can
bring you as many as you want as often
as you want the only thing is like i
don't work for money i work for equity
so if you want me to do this i want 30
of your company and people are like just
handing them the company here you go
because you can bring you can make it
rain you can bring me customers you can
bring leads and so i start shifting like
if i got to figure out a skill set in
this market it's like the most valuable
thing i can learn is how do i make it
rain for a company and then i can go
plug into companies i like find a cut
like whatever that is but now you're so
valuable that like when
when you know things start going down
like i figure like the dental office the
two last people standing is the dentist
the dude who brings in customers like
they'll fire the receptionist to fire
the the the girl that does your teeth
like all that stuff gone except for the
person who brings the customer in and
the person doing the actual fulfillment
of the service and so like it makes you
so valuable i think that i'd be aligning
with that figuring out the the markets
the industries the businesses that are
like booming right now and how can i go
plug into those and become the rainmaker
because then you can write your own
paycheck from this point forward and
that's uh that's really the stability i
think that all of us want is to be able
to have that and if you have a skill set
like that you become invaluable
all right so let's talk about making it
rain so one of the cool things about
traffic secrets is you took an evergreen
approach anybody else writes this book
and i promise you it's going to be
something that goes out of vogue i mean
honestly with the with what just
happened it would have gone out of vogue
before it even hit shelves um so the
fact that you stopped you said one of
the key things you did here was you
spent the beginning just stopping and
thinking about how do i make sure that
this is something that lasts no matter
what the season no matter what's going
on no matter what you said tick tock
didn't even exist when you started
writing this and by the time it came out
obviously ticker is huge but the
principles all apply regardless of the
platform so what are some evergreen
principles to being a rainmaker so the
first step is really identifying who
your dream customer is
at a deep level like most people are
like oh like especially people that
that only have one traffic like one
traffic stop maybe they drive facebook
ads like they know like oh here's my
interest and my targeting and that's who
their customer is i'm like no you have
to you have to go deeper that like
really understand them at a deep level
like know their likes and their fears
and like what they're interested in
where they hang out and like the the
better you understand that person um the
more powerful step two is step number
one is identifying who they are and step
number two
is understanding that like the power of
the internet is the fact that it gives
us all all these crazy humans with the
things we're passionate about the
ability to like group together online in
different spots right say we pick health
and fitness or biohacking for example so
this is biohacking everyone who's
passionate about biohacking like they
are hanging out together on certain
blogs right there's there's maybe a
dozen or so blogs that all the
biohackers go they read every single day
they're part of the they're in the
communities and they're on these blogs
and then you go to podcasts like what
are all the podcasts that the biohackers
listen to and there's a passionate you
know super passionate audience and
they're listening to all these you know
50 different podcasts and then what are
all the facebook groups they're in what
are all the email newsletters that they
subscribe to and so we start looking at
traffic instead of like targeting on
facebook we start looking at like where
are all these pockets of customers where
are they at and we start looking at like
oh my gosh there's 300 000 on this blog
right here and there's you know 2.3
million to listen to this podcast every
single and you start finding these
pockets of customers and then our job as
as rainmakers as traffic people is to
come back and say okay
here's all these pockets of customers
how do i get access to them like what's
the best way to to get and infiltrate
these groups and uh one of the
strategies that we talk about in the
book is the strategy called the dream
100. and basically what the dream 100 is
is not figuring out
like how do i get 100 customers it's
figuring out who are the 100 people that
already have access to my dream
customers so who's the person who owns
that blog that's 300 000 readers who's
the who are the the podcast hosts that
that have that have the the followings
and the people that they're they're
listening to right and so one of the
exercises i do inside i think it's page
41 in the book
i have a little graph in there says okay
here's facebook and make a list of all
the people on facebook who have your
dream customers already congregated like
what are all the facebook groups who are
the fan pages what are the people that
already have like your dream customers
hanging out there and then you go to
instagram who are the influencers that
already have congregated your dream
customers we've listed all the
influencers then go to podcasts and
who's all the podcasters and so you make
this list and eventually you've got 100
200 300 people that have all of your
dream customers on it
and now it's like understanding that i
can go and i can i can buy ads to the
followings of these people and you
should but if i can like if i can get to
know and build a relationship with one
of these people like a gatekeeper of
this community they can click a button
and open up the access to the entire
community right like for example right
now i'm lucky enough to have you
interviewing me on your on your podcast
and you've got a huge following of
people who are going to hear about the
book and hopefully someone come by the
book and it's like it's giving me access
to this huge thing um and uh it's it's
interesting like we spend millions of
dollars a month on on ads but so much we
do in the businesses is building
relationships with the people who have
access to these huge audiences and then
um what's nice is i can i can spend more
time in energy networking and marketing
and building relationships and spending
money because if i get one of those
people to say yes it can sell a hundred
or thousand or more of my products in
fact i don't know if you've gotten this
far in the book yet but i actually quote
you in the book um uh from an interview
you did where you were talking about
when you guys built quest initially the
first thing you did is you found here's
all the influencers and you send them
out uh quest bars with handwritten
letters and you're like hey if you hate
him let us know if you like them let us
know but just want to send you some of
our stuff and you did the same thing you
went to all these influencers send them
your bars handwritten letters and then
from that how much people loved it start
sharing with their audiences and boom it
it i'm assuming that's kind of the the
ground fire that initially launched
launch quest but i'm right
yeah 100 and that is one of the most
powerful strategies the both of those
things so one are you able to identify
your audience and then two are you able
to um put together uh a relationship
like are you able to bring value to that
person find some way to connect over
time um and that's where i say like you
people have to take care of their needs
first because to play this game right
it's not about the short-term dollars
and i've heard you tell similar stories
to my own story which is in the
beginning of your journey it was or i'll
speak for myself though i've heard you
say similar things since the language
i'm going to use is
maybe derogatory i'll speak for myself
so uh i did every get rich quick scheme
you could imagine so when i was young
dude i was about it i was like there was
this thing for a while was typing for
money and i was like yo they were
talking about how much money you can
make like you know transcribing things i
was like i'm about it let's do it and i
just tried i tried selling insurance
door-to-door i did um pyramid
schemes it didn't i really believed in
the product i was selling but still uh
not necessarily a good look um and i
just i wanted it to happen fast
and once i broke away from that and i
just started thinking about okay um i
didn't obviously say dream 100 but
really identifying like where is my
customer base like the the people that
would i would really be able to serve
with this product where are they right
which is something you wrote about the
book niche out like you got to pick a
niche once you're niched out then it
becomes a lot easier to
win in that in that space right you're
not competing against everybody in their
dog they're easy to find online uh you
can deliver a crushing amount of value
so doing that and then playing the long
game and building relationships not
trying to get anything in the short term
look i'm not a fool i get that acting in
that way and adding value to somebody
else it ultimately does come back to you
some percentage not all of it but like
when it feels good in the moment and
then two
you'll you'll be able to weather a storm
because they're going to be other people
there for you and it goes back to the
story you told about arsenio hall which
um i think is really powerful tell
people that story it's it one i because
i have a follow-up question about it
which is
building a platform isn't the only way
and i'm super curiou tell the story
because the people need to understand
the punch line before i can really ask
you a question
for sure so one of the i uh we'll talk
about the book is one of the most uh
powerful ways to infiltrate your dream
100 and get to know these people is by
having your own platform um because like
what like what do i have to offer tony
robbins what i have to offer you know
these these people that i've loved to be
you know on my dream 100 like a lot of
times they have everything i'm not going
to pay them i'm not going to it's what i
have to offer the thing you have to
offer is your platform and i think
there's a lot of ways to infiltrate your
dream 100 and get to know people but one
of the most powerful ways for sure is
that like like the reason why i met tony
robbins initially in it and i did a
whole youtube video it's like 10 minutes
long showing a 10-year uh journey i went
on with tony of helping him serving him
and doing all these things for him
before eventually he promoted something
for me 10 you know decade later but it
was like
the only way the door even opened is
because i had a platform i was able to
help promote him on top of my platform
and open the doors and so many other
people i've had a chance to meet all
came because i had a platform to to be
able to offer them and it opens up opens
up doors you can't get otherwise so i'm
a huge believer that people should start
their own
show it could be a youtube show it could
be a podcast could be a blog it doesn't
really matter what but something we can
create a platform that you can leverage
to to get to know people that that own
your your your customers
all right well then let's talk about
that so i think we're going to see the
death of
an influencer class as advertising
revenues dry up
so a lot of people that have been making
it their livelihood it's going to i
think stop being their livelihood but
any time where there's massive
disruption there is massive opportunity
and i think there is going to be a whole
new crop of influencers that actually
figure out how to crack this nut so what
what are some of the uh as the king of
something was secret in the title what
are the secrets to building a platform
yeah um a couple things like number one
is
like you have to realize that first
you're you are not going to be good um
when i i remember i started my first
podcast it was called the marketing your
car podcast and i called it that because
um i had a five-minute commute from my
house to the office and i was like at
least i know i'll be consistent so i'm
just getting my phone out and click
record and i'm just gonna talk while i
drive and i did a five minute podcast
every single day for
i don't know five or six seven years now
i mean absolutely it's been it's been a
long long time and what's crazy is my
first set up i didn't know how to track
stats in the first three years i had i
just didn't know um i just set it up i
started recording and my brother
published him and i'd ask him that
people were listening he's like i don't
even know how to check so we didn't even
know i'm so grateful no i didn't know
because because i just kept publishing
i'm like i'm driving anyway i might as
well do these things and um it was about
300 episodes in when we shifted it from
the marketing uh
in your car to marketing secrets and
that time we switched the platform we
set up the analytics and my brother's
like oh my gosh we're getting like a
camera like ten thousand people perhaps
are listening right now it's like oh
i gotta have no idea this is amazing and
we started looking back at the stats you
look at like
how how little it was for so long and
then um i remember one of my
this guy that came into my world who's
one of our hyper successful students now
he was like when i came in you know i
started i came in on the episode 300 i
was like i'm going to binge listen to
everything so i started number one he's
like man the first like 40 or 50
episodes were so bad he's like you were
the worst ever he's like but about 45 46
you started like getting in in the
rhythm and then like it started getting
good now like i love it
and so the first lesson is like you have
to publish long enough to find your
voice like most people do like two
episodes like oh no one's coming but
it's like no you have to like make this
a commitment you got to do this for a
long time because at first no one's
going to be listening and that's okay
because you're going to be really bad
but it's going to give you the ability
to like find your voice that's number
one number two is um and i have an
article here that from one of my friends
nathan barry he wrote a blog post called
endure long enough to get noticed he
talked about he said like if you look at
most good tv shows
like usually you don't find out the good
tv shows so it's like in season five or
season six right or or uh movies that
are like you know the third movie then
you're like oh and we'll go back and
watch all now because they've survived
and he said that you know so because
there's so much content being created
all the time that us as consumers we
wait for the best stuff to rise to the
top and so the first reason why you're
publishing all the time is because
you're trying to find your voice that's
step number one step number two is
you're doing it long enough that your
dream customers can find you and so it's
coming down saying i'm going to be
consistent i'm going to do this i always
tell my people like publish something
like at least 100 episodes and by the
time you've done 100 episodes and i
recommend at least like in a year window
so you're doing multiple times a week
within a year you'll found your voice
your people have found you and you'll be
financially free and so far anybody
who's taking me on that challenge by the
end of the year they have done exactly
that they found their voice the people
found them they've been financially free
and so it's just like one of those
things that just it's it's scary it's
weird and it feels painful at first
because it's not fun when you're really
bad but then you get in your stride and
then it just it gets really good
yeah i will echo that sentiment so when
i first started this was back at quest i
started a show called inside quest which
would be very recognizable to fans of
impact theory but when we first started
it um even though i would say that if we
all have some element of talent where we
get just disproportionate wins mine is
for sure verbal ability so
the more i have practice the more energy
i put into being able to articulate a
message to be able to speak
extemporaneously i just got
disproportionate returns from that so
somebody else might do the same thing if
i'm getting a 1.3 x return on my time
maybe they're getting a 0.7 right so for
me like that's a that's a pretty big gap
when i started
i was so frustrated no one was listening
i didn't think i was good at it um and i
went to my producer who i also happened
to be married to and i said yo i look
i'm i'm running uh a billion dollar
business over here like this doesn't
make sense i'm wasting my [__] time
like what are we doing and she said over
my dead body and ironically what the
exact amount of time she said was you're
gonna do this for a year and she said if
at the end of the year it's still not
delivering like you don't feel that it's
delivering enough value to be worth
doing it then we'll stop but she was
like i really believe in this i really
think that you can add value to people's
lives so just take the time to figure it
out take the time to let the audience
find you and of course now at the time
it was just like one thing that we were
doing to try honestly started as a way
to add value to my employees and now
it's become my entire business model is
predicated on creating content so the
the platform as you're saying um i think
that's really really powerful um one
thing i would just kick myself in the
face if i didn't ask you about that you
brought up earlier um
you've gone through cycles before you've
been in business for a very long time
you've dealt with downturns
i want to know emotionally you said you
know you're coming in and you're laying
off half your people
you've got to convince the other half to
stay and you've got to be tied to the
mission and all of that how have you
stayed passionate about what you do how
much do you think about the why of what
you're doing um how do you survive those
down times emotionally
oh
um
yeah it's
uh i think anyone who's created
something amazing has felt this before
um it's funny because when i got into
business
like most people i think i i did a lot
of the type from home and the selling
door so like i get it like we get into
like we want the money and you start
going after that that's what the initial
draw a lot of times is is like i need to
make some money and after making money
really quickly uh you realize how
unfulfilling that is and you're like huh
that was not that cool and then uh and
then you start seeing the success of the
people that you're whatever you're
selling to the people and then like that
becomes this next level of win where
you're like oh my gosh like because i
did something cool like that person had
this big win and that becomes this drug
that's like like at least for me like
it's unquenchable like i just keep i
keep wanting i desire like the more it
happens the more i want it and the more
um and so for me like that's the thing
and so when when things would struggle
um i remember uh i remember i like i
used voxers like my my mode of
communication with most of the world so
it's just a little walkie talkie app and
in in voxer you can uh if the message is
really cool you put a little star next
to it so my kids said a cute thing i'll
put a star next to it when people my
friends or clients or customers send
testimonials i put a little star next to
it so then you can go listen to all the
stars you want and so like when times
were down i'd go back and i would just
go listen i click on the star section
and listen i just listened to like 30 40
minutes of people tell me how i changed
the life what happened how it worked it
was just like all right and like
listening to that got me back the spot
of like okay i got to do this and then
uh my favorite my favorite quote of all
time is uh churchill however long and
hard the road and he's talking you know
to the to parliament about this this war
they have to go on and it's going to be
brutal all these things are how hard
it's going to be in and then the
variance says like we're going to you
know victory victory at all costs
victory however long and hard the road
and so whenever i i listen to that i
rigged re-center myself like this is
where we got to go and then it's like
all right we're going victory however
long and hard the road whatever it's got
to go whatever we got to do we're just
going to go and we're going to go and
we're going to go
and uh that that phrase like however
long and hard the road like rings to my
head all the time every time i'm tired
or i'm frustrated i think about the
people i hear about success and then and
then we go after it and that's kind of
the draw for me the pool
everybody in america should be a
business owner however not everybody
should be in the business of starting a
company and not everybody should be in
the business of operating a company